Describe his manner of leadership. Very
congenial. Had a few basic meetings with all the
departments. Would sometimes come to our own
particular faculty meeting and share his view. We
were always made to feel important. He made us all
feel important and he shared If he had something,
some publications on foundations, he would send
them to me, and I suspect he did that to everybody in
the field, his wide reading. But he was a leader
that allowed more freedom, I think, for the
faculty, slightly more freedom. How much of him
did you see physically? Not a lot, no. We were all so
busy in our own little worlds that we kept—but he
was always available. I think he had some sessions
up on the eighth floor to talk to people and share
ideas. Very accessible. Who were the key members
of his staff?
I think he continued having Ritchie as a secretary
and Brian Cole. Okay. What role did Brian play,
really? Was he kind of the chief of staff? I
pictured him as that. Of course, he has a West Point
background, so that would fit. But Brian is just a
remarkable person, and I think we're very lucky to
have him as a person in the background. Very
efficient. Everything he does is well done. But he
complimented Dean Corrigan. Meanwhile, over at
the presidential level, Dr. Williams had been
replaced by Jarvis Miller and then Frank Vandiver
and so forth. How did you and your colleagues, what
did you all think about these changes at the
presidential level? Did that affect education
much? I don't think it affected education. We were
all very sorry. Of course, Williams went to be
chancellor, but we lost his input here. I always
liked Jarvis Miller. As I say, I was president of
TAC, the Texas Association of College Teachers,
when he came and he joined us, which was, I thought,
very nice because a lot of administrators thought
that was a little subversive. But it was really an
organization to help faculty, faculty
standards.
I believe that he wanted all the faculty to be in
their office all the time. I'm not sure about my
facts on that now, but he saw a man, was he in
history, that was running around all the time in
shorts? He died a few years ago. Lloyd Taylor.
Lloyd Taylor, fine man. But he saw somebody
running when it was not the noon hour. That's a
rumor I heard. But I always liked him very much. And
Vanderveer, of course, was an outstanding
president. Again, I was president of TAC that
year. and we had trouble getting him to speak to us.
He was so busy. I remember there were a lot of times
where he had to cancel out, but he always helped
with tech. Now that's a general faculty
organization. As far as the College of Education
is concerned, I don't believe there was any
feeling that there was a change. They were always
supportive. Let's see, so you served under how
many deans? Only two, really? You mean of
education? Well, I believe that Limbacher was—
Oh, I forgot Phil. Phil Limbacher was— So Hubert,
and then Limbacher— Limbacher. And then— And then
Dean Corrigan. Okay. And then about the time I was
retiring, it was Lady Dean and I— Yeah, but that was
very brief. Yes, I was half-time and then retired.
And then Dean Connolly now, who's a very lovely
lady.
Looking at the presidential level, I'm not going
to ask you the negative, to which presidents would
you give highest grades that you served under? Oh,
President Williams. Yes, without question.
A historic figure, I think, in the history of
higher education. Just a fine man. Now, he's
buried at Clemson, isn't he? Yes. My children went
to Clemson. They never sold the first house they
built as junior faculty members, and when he died
in Houston, Mrs. Williams then went back to that
house, and that's where she's living now. Well, if
I get back to Clemson one time, I'll see if I can
check with her. Oh, she'd be delighted to see you.
She's still bright as can be. Well, I can't
remember anyone better. I served under some good
college presidents, Gideons of Brooklyn.
I brought that folder of his inauguration. You
probably have copies of that. I was also a delegate
for Miller's inauguration. As I say, after Miller
retired, I knew him where my mother was at Walden,
the retirement home. He did a very nice job there.
Did you go to commencements very often at A&M? Yes,
and I got tired of counting all the bodies that were
going by. Describe, make believe I had never been
to an A&M commencement. Describe an A&M
commencement. Well, it's
really part of the tradition where you go, we take
turns, we would get our gowns on and get lined up.
The students were lined up in mass. It was a
marvelous maneuver. Then we would march in and sit
up in front. Then we had the name calling. What was
that man that had such a nice voice? In physical
education. Yeah. I see him around. Well, anyway,
his voice would ring and he would get the most
unusual names pronounced correctly somehow. But
it was rather an endless procession. Roger
Fellman. Roger Fellman, wonderful man, Roger
Fellman. But we would get this procession, and of
course as faculty all eyes were on us, so we had to
keep pretty alert. But instead, I always thought
that being a professor was less a profession than a
procession. What did you and your colleagues do to
stay awake while all of the graduates' names were
being called out? Well, I sometimes would figure
out how many a minute would pass, and I would work on
little formulas to see if I could pick up the right
number. I also went to graduations as part of the
audience, too, and the advantage of that was you
could see what the students had written on their
hats. Do you remember any? They were always there
for jobs. high bomb or something like that. If you
were behind them, you could see that. As a faculty
member, you didn't get to see the top of their head.
Of course, we knew what was in their heads. My
favorite was the one that a kid put up one day, Hell
Froze Over.
Oh, that's a good one. Do you remember any
commencement speakers?
You know, I can't even remember what was said. I'm
sure that, did you speak one time? Yes. I think I
remember. That was the day before Jarvis failed to
shake hands with Melanie Zintracht. I was not at
that occasion. That was Saturday. I spoke on
Friday afternoon. Well, I may have. By the way, you
spoke at the Kappa Delta Pi one time. I found the
folder. Oh, my goodness, a lot of it. If you need it
for your biographer. Oh, oh. All right, well, let
me mention, any kind of material like that, if you
ever want to get rid of it, please pass it on to the
archives. Right, and they also ask me for course
material sometimes too, and I haven't gotten that
put together. Yes, because otherwise things like
that get thrown away. And here's a repository that
will be there forever. Do you remember the Rudder
Lecture Series? Yes. I've got some newspaper
clippings on that, too, if you'd like to have them.
Oh, yes. Oh, yes. I'll dig them out. All right.
Remember when we had President Williams and we
were waiting for Jacques Barzun? He was still on
the – he wouldn't fly, and we were trying to hold the
audience and Yours truly had to go meet him in a car.
You were in the car. I was with President Williams,
and we were trying to talk, and we kept giving word
to the audience that we had just heard they were
coming in through Caldwell or something like
that. I guess you must have been calling. He's just
been elected to the Texas Institute of Letters. He
has retired and lives in San Antonio now. I think
that he just wrote this powerful book, didn't he?
The History of the World or something. I haven't
seen it yet. I just loved his lectures, but he never
submitted the manuscripts, did he? No, he would
not do so. Well, I have the newspaper clippings if
you would like them. Yes. Other lecturers you
remember, other visitors to the campus,
celebrities throughout these years? Well, of
course, Seberg was the next one who was kind of a
disaster, to say the least. But in education, we
had several fine ones in the centennial year.
Butts, R. Freeman Butts of Columbia. was one of our
speakers. He's still living, as far as I know, must
be in his 90s. And we had Brody, a foundation man
from Illinois, who gave a great presentation.
We're not on tape now, are we? Yes, yes, yes. I don't
want to hesitate. In the old days, long-distance
phone calls made me so nervous because I wanted to
be sure to get it all out in three minutes. Oh, no,
no, that's no worry. We had just marvelous
speakers here, and faculty. Remember the yearly
lecture of an outstanding faculty member? I
remember this group in 1972 or 73 called the
Antiquarians, and Bill Allen
got that going. I have some of his letters that are
just absolutely hilarious as he introduces the
next group. He's back at L.A. I heard from him
recently. His wife died and he's been not well. Now
who became your, during all these years, who
became your closest faculty friends? Well, Glenn
Johnson, I think Bob Schutz. Bob Schutz died four
years ago. And I was divorced in 1978, and so that
hurt my social life. And then I remarried. the lady
taught at Pan American and she never lived here, so
that was a little bit... So I kind of went out of the
social swim. But on campus, who were your close
friends? Well, Dick Costas always. We now have a
knot-holers club with Tom Chandler, who's, of
course, suffering from Parkinson's, and Clint
Phillips, and a few others. And we meet every two
weeks to discuss the state of baseball. But Dick
Cost, over the years, was my best friend outside of
the department. Of course, Bill Allen, when he was
here. We were classmates together at Cornell.
But every faculty member was very friendly. And I
got to know a lot of them through tact. But then in
the last 10 or 15 years, I've been out of the swim.
Looking back over all these years, what were some
of the happiest moments you recall as an Aggie
faculty member? Well, I think I was always happy. I
worked hard, but I always felt very happy here.
There was something about A&M that the students
reinforced this. What contributed to all that
positive feeling? I don't even when I was
divorced. I mean, I went through a terrible
depression. But I just still had the feeling of
belonging to a great university. But of course,
happiness is a state of mind which probably is not
completely environmental. I think I just had that
kind of nature.
But these have been the happiest times of my life.
Now other happy experiences, I think probably a
very happy experience is every semester when the
semester's over. And you can say, sort of sigh and
say, well now I don't have to get ready for the next
day right away. Those were all happy times. And all
the happy memories of students. These students
were very fine.
Have there been times when a student would, a
former student would write you a letter or stop you
somewhere and thank you for? Well, oh yes. Since
I've been retired, students remember me better
than when they had me. How do they? Well, they tell
my wife what a fine teacher I was or something like
that. I remember when I won the teaching award, I
had students write me and ask for money,
jokingly. You're talking about this— No, no, it
was just the $2,000
award. But I didn't get a watch. How did you learn
you had won that? Not until I was sitting in the
faculty meeting, and I was very embarrassed
because one time I didn't wear a suit coat. And I had
no idea until Brian Cole said, he's famous for
pontificating. And with that coined word, I
suddenly thought, gosh, that's striking pretty
close. That was, I think, definitely the
happiest. I also won a teaching award when the
civilian students had an award earlier in the 70s.
But yes, I think that was the happiest time,
because we generally wonder if we ever have done
any good and if we can be recognized for anything.
And that was monumental. Of all your research,
what were you most proud? I think probably of my
creation of the sociobiography, which I was
trying to develop as a new genre for a combination
of biography and sociology, at the development of
the International Society for Educational
Biography. And I think that has become important
in the long run. The society is still going strong,
not to anything I'm doing. Right now I'm mainly
just doing fiction. I've gone back to what I wanted
to do before I went into teaching. Are you
publishing any of it? No, I haven't published
anything. I like to write more than I try to figure
out the markets, but I'm writing short stories now
because my memory is getting shorter. As you look
back on these years at A&M, Did the College of
Education miss any opportunities? Are there any
things that now you think could have been done that
for some reason didn't get done? Well, as I say, we
could have had a stronger foundations
development, which to me is so important. If we're
going to develop a profession, I think we need to
have more theoretical roots and a better
understanding of what has been done rather than
keep reinventing the wheel.
We never really took off the ground there, except
for the things I did, and I made a very small
contribution. But I think the education
department was very, very strong, and I think what
they were doing was outstanding.
The problem of education, of course, is that it's
much too complex for anybody. Everybody's
different, and we don't have a single law. of
gravity. And even gravity, I understand, doesn't
work all the time anymore either. But it's such a
very complex field that I think it's not a science.
And I think attempts to make it a science are
worthy. But it still comes back down to its
humanistic roots, I think. And that is what the
Foundation's tried to cultivate. As far as you
know, if we ranked all the programs in education in
the nation today, where
would A&M be? and relative general grouping? I
think right up at the top. I don't think there's any
question about that. Of course, I haven't been
keeping up for the last nine years. But I think it's
my experiences at Columbia, Brooklyn College,
and my trips to Stanford and Iowa and other
conventions. I think what we're doing here is
right up at the very top. If we could group all the
people together, call them back, all the people
that you dealt with here in education and
elsewhere in the university, to whom would you be
most grateful? Who would you want to thank most?
Not just students. Not just students. Well, I
think
that's a very fine question.
There's so many people that we would need to thank.
I would thank Glenn Johnson for bringing me here,
and Dean Hubert for helping me grow. Demanding
that I grow is a nice way of them. And
so many of the colleagues. But I think, again, it's
our students that make the whole thing work. And I
would like to thank all my students. I've had some
very good ones, and of course I'm proud of most of
them. I didn't always know what I was trying to get
at, and sometimes I didn't either, but I'd like to
thank them. I've just about run out of questions.
Are there some topics we have not covered that we
should have? No. What extra departmental
activities? What service groups were you? Well, I
did work with the Rutter Lecture Series and then on
the Centennial Committee with you. And one of the
lecture series that I developed along with
another person. It was the Aiken. It was our
Senator Aiken. Gilmer Aiken? Gilmer Aiken. But it
also had, I put it down. My
memory is just not trustworthy. Stennett.
Stennett. He was one of our very famous. at
administration, who was the founder of so many
evaluation developments and higher standards in
education, Stennett Aiken. Aiken Stennett. We
developed a lecture series and brought in Maxine
Green, who was a cult figure in education. and
Kineller from UCLA.
It didn't continue, but I was very proud of work in
that area. And, of course, my TACT activities
outside of the College of Education. Well, I was
president of TACT when the Senate came along, and I
was surprised the Senate didn't contact us on
that. But TACT was always small, maybe 100 people.
Then I, of course, with advancing age,
slowed down. I've just tried to keep up with
research in the field of history of children and
also in qualitative research, the key to it. I
think biography is essentially as close as we can
get to good solid qualitative research. If you
were brought in as a consultant to the department
and then to the college today, what advice would
you give them for A&M's programs to be even better
in EDC&I and the College of Education. What advice
would you give them? Well, I don't think I'd want to
give advice. I would like to ask what we mean by
better. I
was also on this evaluation committee for the
university, and our service and research and
teaching was our major field. Well, what is better
teaching? I wouldn't advise on that. Although I
have various theories, but I think we would have to
have a lot of alternative teaching devices
because people are so different. Research, I
would advise continual stressing of research. I
might advise that there some could be more
teaching professors who would love teaching and
not require them to do a lot of research, give them
more teaching. and if they love that, and not have
them research or lose their position because they
haven't published. And as far as service is
concerned, I think we need to get closer and closer
to the community and to the nation, not being
dependent upon the nation for funding all the
time, but at least to make sure that it's relevant.
But I would more like to have them tell me what
they're doing. I don't think I'd be a very good
consultant. I'm too indirect. In terms of the
sheer size of the program, would you suggest any
changes there? I think it's gotten a little bit too
big. I yearned for those days when we were a family.
We wanted to be a community of scholars and a
community of students. And it's hard to do in a big
fashion. And yet, it's more economical. I think it
might be possible to develop maybe smaller
communities within. Of course, our colleges are
that. But within the colleges, try to develop some
centers for community interest to develop. But I
think when you get up to over 40,000, it becomes
more like a factory, even without the whistle. All
right, then, I've got only two left. And the next
last one is, if someone walked up to you and gave you
a check for a million dollars with one requirement
that you had to pass it on to Texas A&M, what would
you want A&M to do with that money which you gave
them? You can make the decision. Well, initially,
my first thought would be scholarships for needy
students. In what areas? Well, of course,
education is my field, but if I had a million
dollars to give to the university, I think it
should be divided into various areas as
scholarships for any in each of the colleges. When
you said for needy students. Well, let me take that
back. I think for outstanding students.
Yes, the best. All right, the last question. What
feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M
today? Well, to me, this is the height of my career.
And I want to stay here as long as I can and be part of
it. I'm still a professor emeritus. I still have an
office. And I'm still on a committee or two.
Probably I'll never finish. But I'd like to finish
here, which I consider the best part of my career
and life. That's a good thing.